README.md, before:

# GUI_CyberAmp
A Graphical User Interface for CyberAmp 320 and CyberAmp 380 as the CyberAmp Control program does not work on newer versions of Windows. The manual for CyberAmp380 was downloaded from [docplayer].
This GUI uses the command from the "Programmer's Guide" section in the manual (page 94 in the document). Not all commands are used at this moment, the diagnostics are ommitted. This GUI thus allows for signal conditioning and amplification. Probes are not supported.

## Table of content
* [Technologies](#technologies)
* [Setup and Launch](#setup-and-launch)
* [How to use](#how-to-use)

## Technologies
- ATEN USB to RS-232 Adapter (UC232A) [ATEN-website]
- CyberAmp 380 (8 channel)
- NAME adaptor
- Windows 10
- [Processing] with ControlP5 and G4P libraries

## Setup and Launch
- ATEN Adapter settings (Device Manager > Ports (COM & LPT) > ATEN USB to Serial Bridge (COM 7)):
    Setting | Value
    --- | ---
    Driver | 3.8.15.5 (02/10/2017)
    Bits per second | 9600
    Data bits | 8
    Parity | None
    Stop bits | 1
    Flow control | None
    
- Install Processing
    - Install libraries (Cketch > Import Library... > Add Library > search for "controlP5" or "G4P" and Install)
- Download the repository, open "GUI_CyberAmp.pde" in Processing and Sketch > Run

![ScreenshotGUI](GUI_CyberAmp_preConnect.png)

## How to use
The first thing to do is connect to the appropriate Serial COM port (that was COM 7 in this example  [Setup and Launch](#setup-and-launch)) by selecting the correct one from the "Serial port" drop-down menu. If a correct device is selected the GUI query CyberAmp for current values and update every channel to the last stored values in the CyberAmp. The bottom-right "Save to CyberAmp" button stores the current values to the CyberAmp (writen to a non-volatile memory).

The schematics for each channel can be found on page 6 of the "CyberAmp 380 operator's manual" and it will help in understanding the categories of the GUI:

![ScreenshotSIGPROCPATH](SignalProcessingPathway_fromManual.png)

 - POZ and NEG select the coupling of the + and - inputs, respectively
 - PreAmp is the pre-filter amplifier
 - Offset in microvolts with Update and Zero buttons
    - Update is used when the user inputs a new value and want to send it to the device
    - Zero will zero-offset the channel if possible
- LPF is the Low Pass Filter
- Notch filter selector toggle button
- PostAmp is the output amplifier
- TotalAmp reports the total amplification

## Future ideas
- overload detection
- user definable colours
- allow more than one device on the same COM port
- implementation of other commands in the Programmer's Guide
- add (+) and (-) buttons for setting Offset without the need to type in numbers
- query for overload reports and show in the GUI

[docplayer]: https://docplayer.fr/155872871-Cyberamp-380-operator-s-manual.html
[ATEN-website]: https://www.aten.com/global/en/products/usb-&-thunderbolt/usb-converters/uc232a/
[Processing]: https://processing.org/

Commit message:

Cmit: fixxed errors with P and Z before connected

README.md, after:

# GUI_CyberAmp
A Graphical User Interface for CyberAmp 320 and CyberAmp 380 as the CyberAmp Control program does not work on newer versions of Windows. The manual for CyberAmp380 was downloaded from [docplayer].
This GUI uses the command from the "Programmer's Guide" section in the manual (page 94 in the document). Not all commands are used at this moment, the diagnostics are ommitted. This GUI thus allows for signal conditioning and amplification. Probes are not supported.

## Table of content
* [Technologies](#technologies)
* [Setup and Launch](#setup-and-launch)
* [How to use](#how-to-use)

## Technologies
- ATEN USB to RS-232 Adapter (UC232A) [ATEN-website]
- CyberAmp 380 (8 channel)
- NAME adaptor
- Windows 10
- [Processing] with ControlP5 and G4P libraries

## Setup and Launch
- ATEN Adapter settings (Device Manager > Ports (COM & LPT) > ATEN USB to Serial Bridge (COM 7)):
    Setting | Value
    --- | ---
    Driver | 3.8.15.5 (02/10/2017)
    Bits per second | 9600
    Data bits | 8
    Parity | None
    Stop bits | 1
    Flow control | None
    
- Install Processing
    - Install libraries (Cketch > Import Library... > Add Library > search for "controlP5" or "G4P" and Install)
- Download the repository, open "GUI_CyberAmp.pde" in Processing and Sketch > Run

![ScreenshotGUI](GUI_CyberAmp_preConnect.png)

## How to use
The first thing to do is connect to the appropriate Serial COM port (that was COM 7 in this example  [Setup and Launch](#setup-and-launch)) by selecting the correct one from the "Serial port" drop-down menu. If a correct device is selected the GUI query CyberAmp for current values and update every channel to the last stored values in the CyberAmp. The bottom-right "Save to CyberAmp" button stores the current values to the CyberAmp (writen to a non-volatile memory).

The schematics for each channel can be found on page 6 of the "CyberAmp 380 operator's manual" and it will help in understanding the categories of the GUI:

![ScreenshotSIGPROCPATH](SignalProcessingPathway_fromManual.png)

 - POZ and NEG select the coupling of the + and - inputs, respectively
 - PreAmp is the pre-filter amplifier
 - Offset in microvolts with Update and Zero buttons
    - Update is used when the user inputs a new value and want to send it to the device
    - Zero will zero-offset the channel if possible
- LPF is the Low Pass Filter
- Notch filter selector toggle button
- PostAmp is the output amplifier
- TotalAmp reports the total amplification

### Make an executable program
To avoid the need of oppening the GUI from Processing you can Export an Applicaition:
Processing > File > Export Application... and follow the instructions.

### Advanced use
There is a "DEBUG" boolean in "GUI_CyberAmp.pde" that can be changet to "true" which will enable a text field which can be accessed with the mouse or by the TAB key. One can write a command and send it with the ENTER key to the device. If running the GUI from Processing any echo from CyberAmp should be in the Console. There is no echo visible in a Exported Application.

## Future ideas
- overload detection
- user definable colours
- allow more than one device on the same COM port
- implementation of other commands in the Programmer's Guide
- add (+) and (-) buttons for setting Offset without the need to type in numbers
- query for overload reports and show in the GUI

[docplayer]: https://docplayer.fr/155872871-Cyberamp-380-operator-s-manual.html
[ATEN-website]: https://www.aten.com/global/en/products/usb-&-thunderbolt/usb-converters/uc232a/
[Processing]: https://processing.org/
